So continuing on from the previous
video in our introduction to Python, so
we've learned about the print command and
we've learned a little bit about streams
and a little bit about operators and
a little bit about adding numbers and
so forth together.
And let's now use another function.
So what we can do to make
this a bit easier and
a bit more useful is we can
create a way to actually show
a name that's entered from
the keyboard on the screen.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
delete this other code that has
already been used,
cuz we don't need that anymore.
Complete delete all that and
we're gonna start by typing greeting.
And greeting again is
the name of our variable,
I will be talking more
about variables shortly.
Hello.
We can type name = input
("Please enter your name ").
Then we can type print(greeting + notice
I've added a space there, plus Name.
And we just run that to see what it does.
And the other thing is once you
actually have got the run window open,
and we don't need to right click,
although we can run it that way,
you can also just come over here and click
on the green arrow and run it that, so
it's asking us to please enter our name.
I can type in Tim, press enter, and
it actually comes up and says, Hello Tim.
So it's actually looked
at what we've typed, and
it's recorded that into
this variable called name.
And the message has then printed the
greeting, which is hello, another space,
then added what we've typed,
which is in this case, name.
So essentially as you saw, the input
function displays the text that's
been provided to it then waits for
text to be entered into the keyboard.
So, in other words, display this
message: please enter your name,
then waited until we typed something,
then we actually pressed enter.
The text, at that point, you typed is
stored in the variable name as a set, and
that's used by the print function
to actually show the greeting.
Now in terms of strings there's
also a special character called
the backslash character.
That's actually got a special meaning
in strings, so it's used to escape
the character that follows it to
give that character special meaning.
So there's lots of different
control characters, and
we won't go through them all now.
But some of them will actually
do things like start a new line,
or provide a tab to actually
provide tabbed output.
So let's just go through and
look at a couple of those.
So we can type something like
'splitString = "This string
has been, I am typing
split
over
several
lines"'.
And if we print that.
And that's when I typed the first
few characters of the variable,
IntelliJ quite nicely comes up and
says, or do you mean splitString.
So again if you want that, you don't
have to type the whole variable name.
You can just press enter at that point,
and it actually puts the rest in for
us automatically.
So if I run that, or actually I need to
finish off that from the last one, so
I'll pop my name in.
I can see how that worked, and let me just
actually delete this first part up here.
Actually what I'll do,
is I'll actually comment it out.
So I can press Cmd+Slash on my Mac, and
notice how I put the slashes in, and
down at the bottom it tells you
if press Ctrl+Slash on Windows or
Linux machines it'll do the same.
So, what I've done is I've
commented that code out,
which means that that now won't run.
Because, remember, a comment is
there purely for your reference.
So if I run this again,
we'll finally get straight to this
little example of the string.
So you can see what's happened in this,
has actually caused the cursor
to start on the next line.
So consequently, for each one of
those
's we added that actually
spit onto a separate
line each time we did it.
We could do something
similar with a tab string.
So if we type tabbedString =
"1\t2\t3\t4\t5" and another tab again.
And if we do print tabbedString,
if you run that,
you can see how that's done
something a little bit different.
It's used a standard tab function
which you've probably seen in a word
processor before to tab things out which
is a way of sort of organizing things
in a certain position.
So basically,
the point is that the backslash character
is actually interpreted
specifically by Python.
And then depending on the character
that is typed after that backslash, and
then it performs a special
function in that stream.
So that's your sort of slash end,
the first one, it cause it goes to the
start of a new line, and then the slash t
cause it to tab to the next tab position
before I started the printing again.
You can also use that to escape
special characters such as quote and
double quotes, and that's useful if you've
got a string containing both characters.
And probably the example would be
the best thing to show you there.
I'll comment that out again.
So I come down here and I'll type
print ("The pet shop owner said "No,
no, \'e\'s").
You'll probably recognize this
if you're a Monty Python fan.
I'll just close this down so
I can see this a bit better.
That should have actually been a single
quote at the start and not a double.
So what we are doing, is we are saying
that we are using both single quotes and
double quotes in a particular string
which you may wanna use some time.
Bearing in mind that we started off with
this string by saying it's a single quote.
But by putting the backslash in front of
the quote you wanna use, that actually
tells the string, or tells Python, to
treat it not as a special command to close
the string in this case, but to set the
string that can actually be printed out.
And you can also do something
conversely like this as well,
which will give you the same results.
Pet shop owner.
Said,
Like that.
So if we actually run that now so
you can see what I mean.
And you can see what we've done there,
and basically got the same result.
But how we've used the start and
the end quotes and
the slashes has caused the screen to
actually print out in the same way.
So in the first example what the pet
owner said was in double quotes but
his statement includes apostrophes so
we had to escape one or the other.
And that's actually what
we did in those examples.
So in this case the first method, the
first part of this was actually the third.
If there's print statement in other words.
For no other reason other than the fact
that if you type in two consecutive quotes
either a single one or a double one,
IntelliJ will type a third one for you.
Now, you might be wondering why would
you actually want to actually use three
consecutive quotes, well this is actually
a feature of Python, and what it does,
it's actually provided by Python to make
strings that spanned lines more readable.
So, in other words, the string that we
split over several lines earlier is not
easy to read because
of the embedded slash.
And as you saw Python allows a string to
be split over several lines without doing
that by using triple quotes, and the way
to do that, we type something like this.
AnotherSplitString = """ This
string has been split
over several lines""".
There's the three quotes, and my typing.
Okay, so that's actually a way to
actually create the string, and
without having to use any backslashes.
So, in other words, you wanna lay
out a string with breaks, but
you don't want every line to
start a new line with printed,
you can escape the end of
the line with slash dot as well.
Let's see what that looks like so
print another string, anotherSplitString.
Now, if I run that, this string
has been split over several lines.
I can see it has done the equivalent
function to the slash
ns that we were using earlier.
The other thing you can do is, if you
wanna lay out a string with lots of breaks
but you don't want everyone to
start a new line when printed,
what you can do is escape the end
of the line with a slash dot.
So experiment adding a backslash to the
end of the lines to see what happens when
you run the program.
And getting back to
the Monty Python example again,
we can actually also do
something like this.
We can type using the triple quotes,
we can do (' ' ' The pet
shop owner said "No,
no, 'e's' uh,...he's resting" ' ' ').
Like so, which is another way of doing it.
So you can see that the triple quote
feature is actually quite handy.
And conversely we could
do something like this.
We can just copy that and paste it.
I could change the single
quotes there to double quotes.
Like so, and again if you run that,
we get the same result, so
that can be quite handy to look
at using those triple quotes.
The other thing I just wanna point out is
in the case where you've got a quote and
you're gonna go to have
four quotes in a row.
That doesn't work too well, and
you actually find that Python gets itself
into a little bit of a knot with that.
So if you are using the three quotes,
you need to actually have a space before
to make sure you haven't
got four quotes in a row,
which actually [LAUGH] again you saw
that Python doesn't handle too well.
So that serves as a basic introduction.
And look it's only a basic introduction.
What we're gonna do next,
is we're going to the next video.
We're gonna start talking about variables.
Because we sorta glossed over that
a little bit when you talked about,
very basically what they are.
But we're gonna actually talk about that
more in detail, what variables are, and
how to use them.
So we'll start that in the next video.